1) What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?

It turns your existing folder into a git repository and creates a special .git file which is hidden. This hidden .git file is used to record the history of changes made to the files in the repository and the repository itself. This is needed to be able to perform git commands and version control on a folder.

2) How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository? What value do you think it offers?

The staging area is a sort of halfway point between the working directory and the repository. You add files to the staging area that you want to commit to the repository from the working directory, then you can commit multiple files at once. It gives you more control over what is and is not committed.

3) How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?

With the help of git status, you can see what files you have added to the staging area since the last commit as well as what files have been modified since being added to the staging area. It helps you decide whether or not a commit should take place.

4) What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history organized? How would branches help?

Situations in which branches are helpful are when you want to add a feature or make an improvement that you aren't sure will work out, so you still want there to be a working version of your code available. You can then branch off from the master directory with the new feature, but still have the master branch with the original code.

5) How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?

The diagrams help to show the relationships between the branches, and how they are all connected. They also help to explain the meaning behind the "detached HEAD" warnings.

6) What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in the diagram the way we do?

Merging two branches together results in one branch that has all the changes made to both branches.